We present a system that generates playable output in the style of Super Mario Bros. using an unsupervised approach for concept blending models of level design.
The concept blending requires a goal and a set of probabilistic models composed of probabilistic, spatial relationships between level components.
The output of this approach is a blended probabilistic model that can be used for generation and evaluation.
The playable experience is a set of generated output from these blended models, along with their relative evaluations.

We first introduced these probabilistc models in "Towards Game Level Generation from Gameplay Videos" [1].
They are derived via a hierarchical, unsupervised clustering method that learns styles of levels and of level components from gameplay video.
We presented a concept blending extension to these probabilistic models in "Learning to Blend Computer Game Levels" [2].
Concept blending describes a process of merging disparate concepts into a blended whole, generally via mapping components of two concepts onto one another in order to reach some "target" concept.
We make use of analogical reasoning to map relationships from one probabilistic model onto another in order to reach a specified target.
The levels present in this demo represent the output of conceptually blended models with a variety of targets, including levels from the game "Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels" and more abstract specifications such as "underwater castle".

We encode the levels within a new, open-source Super Mario Bros. Unity engine.
The engine allows us to encode levels that could not previously be played, including underwater levels, castle levels, and our own conceptually blended output.
In addition the engine allows drag-and-drop changes to levels, multiple players, and multiple "skins" for each level (including Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario World).
We hope that this engine will benefit the broader Game AI community.

To the best of our knowledge, this represents the first time that conceptually blended video game levels have been made playable at a public event.
Despite the popularity of automatic level generation as a research topic, it is fairly unusual for the output of generators to be made publicly playable.
We hope that this demonstration inspires more level generation researchers to make output that is publicly playable.